Graded questions

Which of the following is not a feature of tightly coupled code?
False: Adding a new feature to the existing code is extremely easy.

True:
If a single component fails, then other components are also affected.
A particular component of the system is difficult to reuse.
A particular component is difficult to test.

Suppose you have decided to use the Spring framework for your next Java project.
 Your colleague asks you the reason for using the Spring framework.
  Which of the following points would you mention to justify your choice?

It helps you focus on the business logic rather than the boilerplate
code associated with it.


It helps you adhere to industry standards, such as loosely coupled code,
separation of concerns and proper configuration management.


Which of the following classes/interfaces provides developers access to the
Spring beans in the application code?

ApplicationContext


Suppose your class depends on a Student bean; however, there are two Student
beans available with different names: Student1 and Student2 in the same
package. Which annotation should be used along with the @Autowired annotation
to guide the application to choose the bean named Student1? Choose the
correct option from those given below.


@Qualifier


Suppose you are working on an application that involves encrypting passwords
before storing them in the database. The encryption part is carried out by a
PasswordEncryptor class. This class provides you with a method that takes
a plaintext password and returns an encrypted one. You need to create a bean
of this class. What should be the scope of this bean? Choose the correct
option from those given below.

(Hint: PasswordEncryptor only contains methods and no fields to maintain state.
 Hence, we need to create a stateless bean of PasswordEncryptor.)


 Singleton


Which of the following is a type of dependency injection supported
by the Spring framework?

Constructor injection
Field injection


Suppose you are working in a new company and are given a
new mission-critical project. The deadlines for this new project are
stricter than the normal projects that you handle.
Your company and team use Java as a preferred language.
You have to choose between Spring and Spring Boot for your new project.
Which one would you go with?

Spring Boot builds on top of Spring to provide additional benefits.
So, you can choose Spring Boot.


Suppose you are working on a project that uses Spring Boot.
A new developer joins your team and says that he has worked
previously with Spring but has not heard of Spring Boot.
As you have knowledge about Spring Boot, he asks for your
help to understand the benefits of Spring Boot over Spring.
Which of the following statements can you use to state the benefits of
Spring Boot to the developer?

Spring Boot automatically adds commonly required dependencies for
specific types of projects.

Spring Boot lets you deploy your application easily with an embedded server.


Which of the following statements about Spring Boot starters dependencies is
not true?

False

Spring Boot starters mess up your pom.xml file and make the management extremely difficult.

Spring Boot starters aggregate all the relevant dependencies of a project and
allow you to only include a single dependency in the pom.xml file.
This simplifies the mess and makes it easy to manage the required dependencies.
Thus, this statement about Spring Boot starters is not true;
hence, this option is correct.

True

Spring Boot starters bundle a set of dependencies required for an application,
for example, web applications.

Spring Boot starters add the relevant dependencies and ease your work.

Spring Boot starters simplify dependency version management.


Suppose you want your web application to run on port number 8081.
Which of the following ways can you opt to do so?

Make use of application.properties files in the resources folder
Make use of command-line arguments while running the application
Make use of the setProperty() method of the System class
