Session 9

Replication and Sharding

Two Imp. Methods
  - High Scalability
  - Robust Performance

(replication and sharding)

What replication means and replica set architecture?

Replication: Create replica or duplicate the given data

Has significant way to ensure data availability and data redundancy

Refers to creation and maintaining replica sets

replica set is group of mongod process maintain the same dataset

useful in prod enviroment as it provides high redundancy and availability

replica - copy of data is secondary data

replica set consists of primary and 2 or more secondaries

all of them have same collection or documents, the process of creating
dataset on different servers is called replication.

Advantages
 - Data availability
 - Improve Efficiency

Replica Set architecture

Only Primary Receives write operation
secondary only accept read operation

primary records all the write operations in operations log or oplog

secondary make the replica of primary's operation log and make exact changes
to their own replica sets so that it reflects the primary data set.


Election of Primary

as discussed, primary does write operations and secondary does read operations

in case if the primary goes down, election will be called for primary i.e. write
operation, till this time write operation will be stalled

https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/

Quiz 1

Replica Set Architecture
How is it ensured that the write operations performed on the primary
node reflects in the secondary nodes?

After all the write operations are performed on the primary node,
the secondary nodes replicate the write operations from the
operations log or oplog.

Feedback:
The primary node records all the write operations in the
operations log or oplog. After all the write operations are performed
on the primary node, the secondary nodes replicate the write operations
from the oplog.


Quiz 2

Never Let You Down
What happens when the primary node goes down?
(More than one option may be correct.)


If the primary node is down, the secondary nodes call for an
election to become the primary node.


Feedback:
If the primary node is down, the secondary nodes call for
an election to become the primary node so that the write operations
can continue.

Till a secondary node is elected as the primary node,
no write operations can be performed but read operations still work.

Feedback:
Correct! Since read operations are anyway performed on secondary nodes,
the read operations still function. The write operations are however
stalled until a new primary node is elected.


Sharding

Concept of sharding was essentially developed from the problem of scalability
than plagued RDBMS

Before sharding need to know on Scaling

High Query - CPU Challenge

Veritical Scaling - CPU, Mem

Horizontal Scaling - Dividing the entire data and workload over multiple servers
to keep the demand.

Divide data using certain logic storing in multiple machines this process is
sharding

Supports huge dataset with high write and read operations

dividing entire collection into smaller chunks and storing each of these in
different replica sets

querying take place on particular shard not on the entire collection (Improve
Query Performance)


sharded cluster in mongodb

1. shard - a portion of entire data is collected in a shard which can be
deployed as replica set

2. Mongos - act like router, interface between client application and sharded
cluster, routes query from client to the corresponding shard for operation

3. Config Server - Store metadata and configuration settings of entire
sharded cluster


Sharding
Which of the following is the advantage of using sharding?

The read operations execute faster due to sharding.

Feedback:
Since the entire collection of a database is divided into several chunks
and then each of these chunks is stored in separate replica sets or shards,
the querying performance improves as it runs only on a specific shard
and not the entire collection.

Once the user enters a command, how does
mongo know which shard to perform the operations on?

The config server between the mongo interface and the
shards provides this information.

Feedback:
The config server between the mongo interface and
the shards contains metadata and configuration settings
for the entire sharded cluster which helps in the identification
of the right shard.


Shard Key

Unqiue idenfier with the help of shard Key

two types

Hash Based Key - Create a Hash value of the given field chosen

Range based shard key - dividing data into ranges based on shard key values

Query from a Sharded Application

  - Query is made by the client application which should contain the shard
  Key

  - When a query includes shard key, mongos using config database to route the
  query to the corresponding shard instead of entire collection

  - Query results are then routed back to the client through the mongos


Advantages of Sharding

1. Helps to scale the systems theoretically there no limit of data
2. High availability
3. Read / Write can scale horizontally.


Quiz 1

Replica Set Architecture
In a replica set, the secondary node would only receive the read operation.

True

Feedback:
The write operations in a replica set are received by the
primary node whereas the secondary node receives the read operations.

Quiz 2

Scaling systems
Which of the following methods belong to the vertical system scaling?


A - Increasing the CPU of a single server
B - Increasing the storage capacity of a single server

D - Both A & B

Feedback:
When you increase either the storage capacity or the CPU
of a single server, you're generally referring to performing vertical scaling.

Quiz 3

Sharded Cluster
The sharded cluster acts consists of

mongos
shard
config server

A sharded cluster consists of all the three components -
shard, mongos and the config server.
